VALENCE ANNOTATION GUIDELINE

PRIMARY TARGET OF OPINION (PTO) : the entity towards which speaker's attitude can be determined. The entity can be a person, situation or event

VALENCE refers to the positivity or negativity or negativity of the PTO. 

In this task, you need to identify the valence (positivity or negativity) of the post author's emotion or valence (positivity or negativity) that a post author ascribes to the event.

Annotation instructions:
The following instructions explain the criteria you should follow when annotating valence.

1. Valence can be identified with valence representations. 

*Valence representations can be any word form or phrases, including nouns, adjectives, verbs and adverbs and even emoticon. 
Example: 
I am *very proud*

Note that verbs can also be representation of valence:
Example:
My goldfish *died*. 

*The valence representations could describe the emotions of the author or the author's attitudes towards the PTO.

Example:
I am very *sad*. (author's emotion)
I *hate* waking up so early this morning. (author's attitude towards a PTO)


2. In some situations, there is not valence representations in the sentence but the PTO have STRONG associations with positive or negative valence. However, don't over interpret the valence of the PTO, go with your primary intuition. If you need a second thought to identify whether it's positive or negative, label it neutral.
Consider this: What best describes the valence of the PTO on most people?

* For PTO that is usually associated with threats (fear, anxiety), loss, nonreward and anger, annoyed or other negative emotions, label the post as negative. 
Example:
I didn't get the first place this time. (nonreward)
Answer: negative

Arggh! When will politicians learn to govern? (annoyed)
Answer: negative (since there is sufficient indication that the speaker is frustrated)

The war has displaced millions. (anger)
Answer: negative (this event is predominantly negative)

* For PTO that is associated with reward or positive emotions, label the post as positive.
I finished all the assignments. (reward)
My grandmother gave me a pretty necklace. (reward)
Answer: positive 

We need a diplomat like Kissinger
Answer: positive (We can infer that the speaker has a positive attitude towards Kissinger.)

-------------
Now label the posts according to the following instructions:

If the post indicates positive valence only, choose "Positive". 
If the post indicates negative valence only, choose "Negative".
If the post indicates both positive and negative valence, choose "Mixed".
If the post does not indicate any valence, choose "Neutral"



reference:
Brendl, C. M., & Higgins, E. T. (1996). Principles of judging valence: What makes events positive or negative?. In Advances in experimental social psychology (Vol. 28, pp. 95-160). Academic Press.

Mohammad, S. (2016). A practical guide to sentiment annotation: Challenges and solutions. In Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis (pp. 174-179).











